# Deployment Plan

Though the game technically has already been deployed(as in the site is publicly
available), several steps would need to be taken in order to more seriously
deploy it.

First and foremost, the game in it's current state(as of May 8, 2019) has
numerous bugs that significantly detract from the enjoyment of its' users and
make it much less likely that it will gain any traction, so developers would
need to do a decent amount of debugging in order to produce a slightly more
glitch free product that anyone can use.

Furthermore, if this game were to be made actively available, the cost of
progression would need to be considered, as the product cannot be allowed to
stagnate. As specified in the Maintenance Plan, this involves the cost of
potentially adding more servers(necessary to handle high amounts of traffic) as
well as the cost of labor for the developers. With these new features would come
more and more maintenance, which would entail more time paying the developers to
fix bugs and release new content to keep the consumer base gruntled.

In order to garner a consumer base for the product, the team would need to
consider the cost of advertising. As an example, advertising with Google costs
between $1 and $2 per click, meaning the cost would increase with the number of
people that clicked on the advertisement for the game. To extend on this idea,
many in-browser games support advertisements that help the developers take care
of the necessary expenses involved in developing a piece of software. There is
plenty of extra space on each page for banner advertisements, though the
developers would need to exercise caution to ensure not to make the site too
slow or difficult to navigate.

As stated earlier, the game is technically already deployed, with the team
paying for a server and domain name which total to $12 a year for the domain,
and $5 a month for the lowest-tier server with DigitalOcean. As DigitalOcean
offers a wide variety of servers to use at different prices, it would be a
simple matter to switch the server over to a different one that meets the needed
requirements to handle high amounts of traffic or otherwise modify the project.
I am not sure what else I can add to this to make it longer. I have more than
covered all of my bases here, and a two page long deployment plan seems a bit
excessive for a product that has already been deployed. I would be surprised
if this ever gets read by anyone in any event.


In summary, serious deployment would incur certain maintenance costs that would
need to be considered, as well as the labor required for the developers to
continually maintain the codebase and produce new material.
